Now, global FinTech funding has
increased over
the last half decade,
albeit with some measure
of quarter by
quarter variability.
As hundreds and hundreds of
FinTech companies have
received those funds,
underlying valuation
levels of some of
the best-known players
has increased a pace.
A number of the ones we've
talked about before
like Betterment and
Wealthfront along with others
like Personal Capital in
the Robo-Advisory space
have already gone
through late stage
venture capital rounds
going through series E and series
F, with substantial valuations.
For example, Betterment closed
around of about $70 million in
mid 2017 with
the post-money valuation
of approximately $800 million.
It's an eye popping number.
What makes it even more eye
popping is the amount
of assets on which
those underlying fees were
presumably calculated.
If you look at the graph
in front of you,
you'll see that in
the summer of 2017,
Betterment might
have had something
like $10 billion give or take.
The valuation implied by
the flows from fees on
$10 billion is really,
really very, very rich by
normal valuation metrics even
in technology related areas.
In other words, the market
must be expecting,
presuming efficiency
of the market,
some rapid expansion of
the market and of
sales for the firm.
We see similar patterns
for Wealthfront,
which reportedly did around
in 2014 at $700 million.
Recently raising $75 million,
although the post-money valuation
was as of this recording
unavailable.
Personal Capital as well raised
something like
$40 million recently,
having previously
raised $75 million in
2016 at a post-money valuation
of $500 million.
At significantly lower levels of
assets under management
once again under which
fees are presumably calculated in
cash flows derive fund from.
To summarize, it looks
like the Robo-Advisory space
not only is expanding.
It's hot and valuations
are following the money.
So I mentioned just a moment
ago that many believe
Vanguard is operating
the world's largest Robo
at around a $150 to $120 billion
in assets under management.
It's interesting to
know that something
like six months in
advance of that level,
it reported being at
about $100 billion.
If that's the case,
then Vanguard must be
raising something like
$5 billion a month in
its Robo practice.
The top players as of
the second half of
2018 have been reported
to be Vanguard,
followed by Schwab
Intelligent Portfolio Group
at $27 billion followed
then by Betterment,
which at that point
reported $13.5 billion,
by Wealthfront over $10 billion,
and then E-Trade, Wealthsimple,
FutureAdvisor, Acorns,
Rebalance, and Fidelity.
What we see is a mix
of independence
again like Betterment
and Wealthfront.
Although again, we
mentioned that some Robos
have arrangements with firms.
For example, Fidelity
controls much of
Betterment order flows
and earns referral fees.
It's also well known that City
owns some proportion
of Betterment.
But we also see traditional
firms like Vanguard,
by way of asset managers;
buy-side asset managers.
We see traditional brokerage
firms like Schwab,
a discount broker, coming in.
We see some interesting
disruptors, like Acorns,
which has a vast customer
pace as part of it.
The largest
RoboAdvisors buy assets
includes a broad cross-section of
investment players
a cross section in
diversity of which we see
reflected elsewhere in FinTech.
A look at a broad
cross-section of
RoboAdvisors reveals
some pretty interesting
characteristics.
For example, if you compare
Acorns to Betterment
or FutureAdvisor or
the Schwab Intelligent
Portfolio platform or
T Rowe Price's active portfolios
or Vanguard or
Wealthfront's offerings,
you see a different approaches,
different numbers,
and characters of
potential clients,
and different assets
under management.
Take for example, Acorns
versus Wealthfront.
We've already talked
about Wealthfront.
Acorns follows what's
called a roundup
approach motivated by
behavioral finance and
investor psychology,
focusing on helping customers
round up their purchases.
So for example, if you buy
a good or service using
a linked debit card or
credit card for say $1.75,
the service will round
up your purchase to $2,
take the extra $0.25 and invest
it in a Robo style portfolio.
They reported, as
of December 2018,
approximately $1.1 billion in
assets across
over two million clients.
By comparison, Wealthfront
reported over $11 billion,
almost $11.5 billion, over
2,000 to 21,000 clients.
Different approaches,
different numbers of clients.
One taking a more
traditional asset allocation
approach, Wealthfront,
others using
behavioral finance like
Acorns as a motivator,
still very popular and
still very interesting from
a FinTech perspective.